# Making sense of missense: a constraint and structural profiling of nonsynonymous variants associated with complex traits
This Github repository contains scripts to run the characterization of missensse variants from genebass.

`mapper_ccrs.py` basically searchs for intersecctions between variants' genomic positions and CCRs genomic ranges. This script takes the following arguments:
- `-assoc` : the directory name where the association files from genebass are located.
- `-out_dir` : the directory where output file will be saved
- `-phe` : a csv file that serves as mapper. It must contain two columns: "phe_name" where the user can name the phenotype any way they want it, and "file_name", which is the name od the csv file contained in the directory provided in the --assoc parameter.

Finally, this script also prints some general statistics about each set of variants mapped to CCRs.

`mapper_3d.py` performs the structural characterization. The needed arguments are the following:
- `-maping` : file name for any output file generated by `mapper_ccrs.py`. If you are dealing with multiple phenotypes, I recommend merging all outputs in one single file.
- `-out_dir` : a directory where output file will be saved
- `-raw_dir` : a directory where 3D data (AlphaFold models and mkdssp output files) will be saved.

This scripts generates a second version of the output file generated by `mapper_ccrs.py`, with additional threedimensional information (secondary structure, absolute and relative solvent exposure). The CCRs model used in this work was generated in the paper titled ["Mapping the Constrained Coding Regions in the Human Genome to Their Corresponding Proteins"](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022283622005125). For ID conversion `MANE.GRCh38.v1.4` was used.
